Steve Carano here for ask a real expert
bunky us asks Steve our drop sets good
for shaping the muscle well they're
necessarily I mean drop sets are a good
way of throwing in some variety into
your workout if you want to do it at the
end of one or two exercises nothing
wrong with that at all but with regards
to the shape of your muscle that's kind
of predetermined by your genetics and
the reason I say that is you can see
some guys who have incredible Peaks on
their biceps other guys not so much so
if there were specific exercises that
allow you to change the shape of the
muscle when it flexed then we all could
look the same but it's not quite that
way again the size of your muscles once
they're built or made huge again it's
gonna be determined by genetics your mom
and dad how the muscle is shaped how it
flexes how your put together your
biomechanics so with regards to drop
sets not a bad way of creating variety
with your workout but it's really not
going to change the state of your
muscles he also asks is doing straight
sets the best way to get big and strong
with reps around six to eight eight to
ten yes without a doubt if you want to
get big and strong simple basic easy
exercises are the best way to do it and
I always want to die when I see guys in
the gym being trained by personal
trainers who are not really in all that
great shape having these people do
gymnastic exercises dude what are you
doing the whole concept is to handle as
much weight so we can create an intense
muscular contraction that's why muscles
grow it's because of the intensity of
the contraction but if you're jerking
around on a ball or standing on one foot
you're gonna lose your weight you're
gonna lose your balance you're not going
to be able to lift the weight one time
one guy said hey man order we do flies
on the ball the 60s feel like hundreds I
said better yet why don't we just lie on
the bench and do flies with the hundreds
because like my last video the 60s may
feel heavy but they don't create the
same type of trauma on the muscle as the
hundreds so again as long as you're
lifting safety that's important but the
heavier weight you can lift and the more
trauma you can inflict on the muscle the
more micro tears occur the more repair
you get the bigger you you become the
next question is from seal dude and he
says he's skinny but he's trying to
build muscle at the same time losing fat
well he probably needs to watch one or
two of my other prior videos but seal
dude I took a look at your workout and
you're probably doing too much boxing
okay remember big size or bigger size
comes from a consistent workout so you
gotta throw in some type of consistency
in your workout so I want to need to I
need to know more about how you're
lifting you guys think in terms of how
many times a week I want to Train each
muscle and then what are the exercises
I'm going to do with regards to those
muscles so let me see I'm in a training
muscle group once a week okay great and
I'm gonna bench an incline bench and
then I'm going to do tricep pushdowns
and then skull crushers and I'm gonna do
leg press and leg curls so you have to
create an organized workout that you're
able to follow on a daily and weekly
basis and that as somebody gets stronger
and stronger and the workout doesn't
make them as sore then they need to add
more weight add more reps add more sets
or add more exercises so that's one way
of thinking in terms of getting bigger
and if you're skinny I always love it
guys say what do I do I want to get big
and strong well you don't want to just
eat junk because you can pack on weight
that way great but the whole idea is
we're talking about quality of muscle we
want a good body composition so gaining
muscle takes time remember it happens at
the cellular level we're fixing muscle
fibers at a cellular level so we need a
lot of those changes to occur before you
can see them in the mirror but again
your strength will go up much faster
than your size will so with regards to
gaining size it's day after day week
after week month after month in the gym
doing the same to him thing it's not
glamorous okay
why is Tiger Woods good at putting
because he hits a hundred putts every
day and ain't exciting but it makes him
good
same thing with weight training if you
deviate too much you can create some
variety but if you do too much dumb
you begin to lose the focus and the
effectiveness of the workout with
regards to your cardio workout to the
the boxing hitting the heavy bag is is
okay it's better than nothing but it's
not effective cardio you mentioned
you're doing wind sprints in there as
well that type of cardio would be good
in addition to probably running a mile
or two since you're already thin okay we
don't want you doing hours and hours of
cardio because you're trying to pack on
additional size so if you're just a
little thick in the middle here and
you're going to I really want to tone up
by lifting weights we're going to
improve your muscularity but by doing
shorter more intense cardio you're going
to save the energy at the lift and
you're also going to increase your
metabolic capabilities see punching a
heavy bag great great great great but
the problem is you don't get a lot of
systemic changes because for systemic
changes to occur we need to be using the
big muscles of the body the legs the
hips your rear end okay those are the
ones that create systemic changes that
really improve your cardiovascular
system so my suggestion to you seal dude
is focus on your lifting make that more
consistent determine and lay out a
workout so again you pack on muscle more
consistently if you still want to hit
the heavy bag that's great but don't
count that as cardio cardio should be
your sprinting and getting a mile or two
in with regards to running train smart
train hard